Hey everybody.
Welcome to another
Statistics overview lecture.
In this lecture I'll be going over
discrete uniform distributions.
So, let's just go ahead and
start off with that definition.
So the definition of a discrete uniform
distribution is a random variable x
has a discrete uniform distribution
if each of the n values in its range.
So like x1, x2, x3 all the way
to x7 has equal probability.
So what that means is the probability of
one event happening is equal just to 1
over n.
The number of possible events.
So for
example this could be like a dice roll.
Every roll of the dice, one through six,
has equal odds if it's a fair die.
And that's just the discrete
uniform distribution.
So we can use Python to
show a simple example.
So I have a bunch of imports here from the
data analysis and visualization course.
Just numpy, numpy.random, pandas,
and then scipy which is a new one.
So from scipy import stats and
that'll allow you to upload
some statistical distributions.
And we'll learn about that
later on in this lecture.
And then matplotlib and
seaborn and then from the _future_
I also imported division.
So I wouldn't have to worry
about floating point numbers.
Okay.
So let's go ahead and
see just a quick example.
We can set up a dice roll and
plot the distribution using seaborn
before we go use matplotlib.
So I'll roll the dice.
We can check out its
probability mass function.
So I'm just gonna make a list called
roll_options and it's one through six.
Those are the different
options of the roll.
The total probably space is just one.
So if I summed up all the probabilities,
they should equal to one.
And then since each roll has, oops.
[SOUND] The same odds of appearing
on a fair dice or a fair die.
I can just say the probability of a roll
is the same as the total probability
divided by the length of the roll
options which happens to be six.
So that means that each number has
a 1 over 6 chance of showing up.
So how can I plot this?
So I could plot using a seaborn rugplot.
Now, this isn't exactly what
a rugplot should be used for,
but it's just the way to get a quick
visual on this distribution.
I'll show you how to do a more correct
version using a bar plot in a second.
But if you wanna do this using seaborn,
you can make a rugplot.
And we can just set the height equal
to the probability of that roll.
So I'm gonna plot all my roll options,
one through six.
And then set the height equal to that
probability of that roll, 1 over 6.
And then just set the color, indianred.
And if we look at that
probability mass function,
then we see that each roll
outcome has the same odds.
A little over 0.16,
which is just 1 over 6.
So you can see that that f(x),
that probability value is just equal
to 1 over the total possible outcomes.
So what's the mean and variance of this
kind of distribution, a discreet uniform?
Well the mean is just simply the max and
the min divided by 2 just
like the mean of two numbers.
And the variance is
defined by this equation.
(b- a + 1) squared- 1 / 12.
So b and a, b just stands for
that max value and a stands for
that lower bound value.
All right, so let's go ahead and
see how we can use scipy to create
a discrete uniform distribution.
So from scipy.stats I've
imported R-A-N-D-I-N-T.
That's used for
discrete uniform distributions in scipy.
I'm gonna set up a low and
high boundary for my dice roll.
And notice I'm going up to seven
because my index starts at zero.
So it's going to be, 7 minus 1 is 6.
Let's get my mean and variance.
So to do that,
I just call randint.stats and
then specify the low and the high bound.
So then I'm just gonna say, the mean is.
And then I print off 3.5.
So that makes sense.
So I can also make a simple
bar plot just using plt.bar.
This is using matplotlib.
So how can I do that?
Let's see, I just say plt.bar.
I put in my roll options.
Remember that's the list
of one through six.
And then to get
the probability mass function.
Last time we did it manually up here.
But you can do it automatically
using scipy by just calling
R-A-N-D-I-N-T and then .pmf method on it.
And the pmf method takes two arguments,
actually three arguments in this case.
The roll_options, so that one through six.
And then the low and the high bound.
And then we have a bar plot of
the probability mass function.
So that's just a very quick overview.
You can check out and go over this IPython
Notebook on a slower fashion yourself.
This is just a quick intro for it.
That's basically it for
discrete uniform distribution.
If you're still interested,
there's a really interesting problem
called the German Tank Problem.
This is just a real case use of
discrete uniform distributions.
There's some information here so
you can just scroll down and
keep reading about it if you want.
If you wanna know more about the German
Tank Problem you can go ahead and
just click the link provided here.
And it'll take you to
the Wikipedia page about it.
It's basically just how the Allies used
discrete uniform distribution methods.
To estimate the amount of tanks
the Germans were producing during
World War II.
So it's actually a pretty
interesting problem and
you can follow along here either with
Wikipedia or the Python calculations.
And that's about it for
the discrete uniform distribution.
Go ahead and check out the notebook or
the Wikipedia page if you're
further interested in the topic.
All right, thanks guys.